NEXT-12781 - [NEW] Administration: Using directives (#191)
shopware/docs: guides/plugins/plugins/administration/adding-directives.md

# Adding directives

## Overview

> Directives in the Shopware 6 Administration are essentially as in any other Vue application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Directives in the Shopware 6 Administration are essentially the way you know from any other Vue application.
```

This guide will teach you how to register your directives on a global and on a local scope.

Learn more about Vue Directives in their [documentation](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/custom-directive.html)

## Prerequisites

All you need for this guide is a running Shopware 6 instance and full access to both the files and preferably a registered module. Of course you'll have to understand JavaScript, but that's a prerequisite for Shopware as a whole and will not be taught as part of this documentation.

## Registering a directives globally

> Directives can be globally registered via the [Shopware Objects](./the-shopware-object.md) `register` helper function as seen below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Directives can be registered globally via the [Shopware Objects](./the-shopware-object.md) `register` helper function as seen below:
```

{% code title="<plugin-root>/src/Resources/app/administration/app/src/directive/focus.js" %}
```javascript
const { Directive } = Shopware;

Directive.register('focus', {
    // when the bound element is inserted into the DOM...
    inserted: function (el) {
        // Focus the element
        el.focus();
    }
});
{% endcode %}

As you might have seen, this is the exact same example as in the [Vue documentation](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/custom-directive.html).

> The only thing that's left now is to import this file in your `main.js` and then you can use it as you would a normal Vue directive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, the only thing that's left is importing this file in your `main.js`. Then you can use it in the same way as you would do a normal Vue directive.
```

##  Registering a directives locally

> Locally registering directives is exactly the same as normally in Vue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Registering directives locally is exactly the same as you're familiar with in Vue.
```

The code snippet below registers the example from the [Vue documentation](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/custom-directive.html) locally to the `swag-basic-example` component.

{% code title="<plugin-root>/src/Resources/app/administration/app/src/component/swag-basic-example/index.js" %}
```javascript
Shopware.Component.register('swag-basic-example', {
    
    directives: {
        focus: {
            // When the bound element is inserted into the DOM...
            inserted: function (el) {
                // Focus the element
                el.focus();
            }
        }
    }

});
```
{% endcode %}

> As mentioned in the before directives can be used as in any other Vue application after they are registered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As mentioned in the directives before, it can be used as in any other Vue application after they are registered.
```

# Adding directives

## Overview

Directives in the Shopware 6 Administration are essentially as in any other Vue application.
This guide will teach you how to register your directives on a global and on a local scope.

Learn more about Vue Directives in their [documentation](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/custom-directive.html)

## Prerequisites

All you need for this guide is a running Shopware 6 instance and full access to both the files and preferably a registered module. Of course you'll have to understand JavaScript, but that's a prerequisite for Shopware as a whole and will not be taught as part of this documentation.

## Registering a directives globally

Directives can be globally registered via the [Shopware Objects](./the-shopware-object.md) `register` helper function as seen below:

{% code title="<plugin-root>/src/Resources/app/administration/app/src/directive/focus.js" %}
```javascript
const { Directive } = Shopware;

> Directive.register('focus', {
>     // When the bound element is inserted into the DOM...
>     inserted: function (el) {
>       // Focus the element
>       el.focus()
>     }
>   })
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Directive.register('focus', {
    // when the bound element is inserted into the DOM...
    inserted: function (el) {
        // Focus the element
        el.focus();
    }
});
```
```

{% endcode %}

As you might have seen, this is the exact same example as in the [Vue documentation](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/custom-directive.html).

> The only thing that's left now is to import this file in your `main.js` and then you can use it as you would a normal Vue directive.

Reviewer 2: maybe you should give a small example how to use this directive `focus` in a new component / template

Author: Well it's exactly the same as in any other Vue application and i link to the Vue docs and say this multiple times. So i think this should suffice

Reviewer: It's more comfortable for the user to not being forced to change between various articles though. So I'd like an example as well, after all.

##  Registering a directives locally

Locally registering directives is exactly the same as normally in Vue.
The code snippet below registers the example from the [Vue documentation](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/custom-directive.html) locally to the `swag-basic-example` component.

{% code title="<plugin-root>/src/Resources/app/administration/app/src/component/swag-basic-example/index.js" %}
```javascript
Shopware.Component.register('swag-basic-example', {
    
    directives: {
        focus: {
            // When the bound element is inserted into the DOM...
            inserted: function (el) {
                // Focus the element

>                 el.focus()

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                el.focus();
```

            }
        }
    }

});
```
{% endcode %}

> As mentioned in the before directives can be used as in any other  Vue application after they are registered.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As mentioned in the before directives can be used as in any other Vue application after they are registered.
```

# Adding directives

## Overview

Directives in the Shopware 6 Administration are essentially the same as in any other Vue application.
This guide will teach you how to register your directives on a global and on a local scope.

> Learn more about Vue Directives in their [documentation](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/custom-directive.html)

Reviewer: Maybe using an `embed` link? e.g.:

```suggestion
Learn more about Vue Directives in their documentation:

{% embed url="https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/custom-directive.html" %}
```

You might need to exclude that link from the link checker, just in case it's failing.

Now, the only thing that's left is importing this file in your `main.js`. Then you can use it in the same way as you would do a normal Vue directive.

##  Registering a directives locally

Registering directives locally is exactly the same as you're familiar with in Vue.
The code snippet below registers the example from the [Vue documentation](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/custom-directive.html) locally to the `swag-basic-example` component.

{% code title="<plugin-root>/src/Resources/app/administration/app/src/component/swag-basic-example/index.js" %}
```javascript
Shopware.Component.register('swag-basic-example', {
    
    directives: {
        focus: {
            // When the bound element is inserted into the DOM...
            inserted: function (el) {
                // Focus the element
                el.focus();
            }
        }
    }

});
```
{% endcode %}

As mentioned before, directives can be used as in any other Vue application, after they are registered:

{% code title="<plugin-root>/src/Resources/app/administration/app/src/component/swag-basic-example/swag-basic-example.html.twig" %}
```html
<input type="text" v-focus="">
```
{% endcode %}

> Although make sure that the directive you are trying to access is actually in your components scope, either by registering the directive globally or locally to a component

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% hint style="warning" %} Make sure the directive you are trying to access is actually in your components scope, either by registering the directive globally or locally to a component. {% endhint %}
```

Now, the only thing that's left is importing this file in your `main.js`. Then you can use it in the same way as you would do a normal Vue directive.

##  Registering a directives locally

Registering directives locally is exactly the same as you're familiar with in Vue.
The code snippet below registers the example from the [Vue documentation](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/custom-directive.html) locally to the `swag-basic-example` component.

{% code title="<plugin-root>/src/Resources/app/administration/app/src/component/swag-basic-example/index.js" %}
```javascript
Shopware.Component.register('swag-basic-example', {
    
    directives: {
        focus: {
            // When the bound element is inserted into the DOM...
            inserted: function (el) {
                // Focus the element
                el.focus();
            }
        }
    }

});
```
{% endcode %}

As mentioned before, directives can be used as in any other Vue application, after they are registered:

{% code title="<plugin-root>/src/Resources/app/administration/app/src/component/swag-basic-example/swag-basic-example.html.twig" %}
```html
<input type="text" v-focus="">
```
{% endcode %}

> 

Reviewer: Eine Leerzeile zuviel
